Total Marks: 25

You have two tables:

Employee: with columns Empname, age, salary, country, and Departnentid (which is a foreign key referencing the Department table).
Department: with columns Departnentid and DepartmentName.



Q1 - Write a SQL query to display the empname, age, and country of employees whose age is between 25 and 35, and who are located in USA or Canada. Order the results by empname in alphabetical order.
(2 marks)

Q2 - Write a SQL query to find the total number of employees, average salary, and maximum age for each department. Only include departments where the average salary is greater than 50,000. Display the departmentname, total number of employees, average salary, and maximum age, sorted by average salary in descending order.
(4 marks)

Q3 - Write a SQL query to display the Empname, age, salary, and country of employees who work in the departments ME and EC and whose salary is between 40,000 and 60,000. Return the results in descending order of salary. (3 marks)


Q4 -Write a SQL query to find the total salary of employees in each department whose names contain the substring 'Mohd'. Display the departmentname and total salary, and order the results by departmentname in ascending order.( 3 marks)

Q5 -Write a SQL query to find the names of departments that have at least one employee aged over 30. Display the department_name.( 2 marks)



Create a  table named students with columns student_id, studentName course_id, and score.

Then
Q6 -Write a SQL query to find the average score for each course.
 find the course with the highest average score.  (2 marks)


Q7 -Write a SQL query to find all students whose names start with the letter 'A'  and have a score greater than 70. Display the student_id and studentName.(2 marks)

Q8 -Write a SQL query to find all students who are enrolled in courses with the course ID that contains the number '101'. Display the student_id and course_id.      ( 2 marks)

Q9 -Write a SQL query to find all students whose names contain the substring 'son' or 'a'. Display the student_id and studentName.(2marks)




Create  two tables: order and order_status.

Create two tables order and order_status
The order table has columns: order_id, customer_id, order_amount, and order_status_id.
The order_status table has columns: order_status_id and status.

Q10 -Write a SQL query to find the number of orders for each status. The query should count the number of orders and group the results by the order status, displaying the total count of orders for each status. (3 marks)



